{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Bold;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f2\fnil\fcharset0 Menlo-Regular;
\f3\fnil\fcharset0 LucidaGrande;\f4\fnil\fcharset0 LucidaGrande-Bold;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue0;\red26\green26\blue26;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgray\c0;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c13333\c13333\c13333;
}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww12560\viewh16000\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs24 \cf0 Author:
\f1\b0  Alexandre Lissac\

\f0\b Student ID:
\f1\b0  15089073\

\f0\b Date:
\f1\b0  22/02/2019\

\f0\b Title: 
\f1\b0 Developing a lane changing algorithm for autonomous vehicle\
\
The script and libraries were tested on:\

\f0\b Python:
\f1\b0  version
\f2\fs22 \cf2 \CocoaLigature0  3.6.5
\f3\fs24 \cf3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\CocoaLigature1 \

\f4\b Operating system:
\f3\b0  MacOS Mojave version 10.14\

\f0\b Libraries used: 
\f1\b0 os, sys, xlwt, subprocess, path lib, pandas, time, traci, math, hashlib\
\

\f0\b Use: 
\f1\b0 The main.py script should open the SUMO simulator on your device and start a simulation. The simulation will show one left changing manoeuvre. Once the manoeuvre done, the simulator can be closed as nothing important will happen after.\
\

\f0\b Initial instructions:
\f1\b0 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
To run the software, use your terminal to position yourself in the \'93Code\'94 folder. Once in it, run it by entering \'93python3 main.py\'94\
When the simulator opened, please use the \'93play step by step\'94 button to play the simulation. This button is situated on the right of the \'93stop\'94 button.\
The left change will be trigger at time : 30, so run the simulation until this time using the \'93play step by step\'94 button.\
At time: 30, the camera should change focus to the car wanted to change lane and its colour should be blue.\
\

\f0\b \cf3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
How the algorithm works:\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li720\fi-720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}
\f1\b0 At time 30, the algorithm will randomly pick a car on lane 0 to do a left lane change to lane 1\
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\b {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}
\f1\b0 Once the car picked, the algorithm will find the best-nearest open space possible to welcome the car\
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\b {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}
\f1\b0 Once the space picked, the space will be sent to preparation. It will undergo different checks and amends before the algorithm is certain that this space is safe to welcome a car, and therefore lock the space. While being prepared, both vehicles of the targeted open space will turn purple\
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\b {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}
\f1\b0 After the preparation completed, the space will be locked and both vehicle of the open space will turn red\
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\b {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}
\f1\b0 Once the space locked, the car will attempt to insert itself in the space. If the vehicle is too far from the space, the vehicle will amend its speed to get closer to space\
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\b {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}
\f1\b0 Once the car is at an acceptable distance from the space, the car will move into the space and the open space will be destroyed. The lane change is then completed
\f0\b \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
Please note: 
\f1\b0 The explanation above is a short summary of the workings of the algorithm. Please refer yourself to the code to understand the full mechanism of the detection of open space, the detection of the best space, the preparation of that space and the locking. \
\
If you run the code until the end, it will crash. The cause is not linked to the algorithm itself but is linked to the change of colours of cars of the GUI.\
\
\

\f0\b Have a nice day
\f1\b0 \
\

\f0\b \
\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf0 \
\
\
\
\
\
}